**\*\*DATA TYPE:\*\***Dictionaries: It is the collection of key values pairs.It is a mutable data type so we can add , delete and update the date, the data, we can execute the dictionary in the form, of\---------------------------------------------------------------------------18-07-2026----------------------------------------------------------------------Set:&#x20;  set stores unique valuesset stores only immutable / non changeableWhy the order in set does not change for number but changes for characters/strings. Because set store values/ objects baseddictionary:It is also a sequence but it stores values in the form of key and value pairs.why the order is not changing in dictionary even though it is unordered?Dictionary stored the values in itFrozenSet:&#x20;   it is a set which cannot be changed after it creation.Note: When do we use tuple or frozenset .&#x20;   we use them when we want to store values  which should not to be changed.&#x20;   Eg:  Founder of a company.None data types:It is used represent absent tio\---------------------------------------------------------------20/07/26-------------------------------------------------------------------------------**Data Type Conversion vs Type Casting:**&#x09;**Type Conversion:**&#x09;	The automatic a operation assigning of data type when we performoperations between two different data types is called type Conversion. Type conversion only possible between supportive data type&#x09;**Type casting:**&#x09;	Here the user changes the data type of an object manually.&#x09;&#x09;We use data type functions to type cast one data object into another data object.&#x09;&#x09;Here also type casting can happen only between supportive Objects.# **Dynamically typed:**&#x09;	**Here** we don't have to mention the type of the value we are passing hem into our program , we just pass the values and automatically assigns data type to the based on the values## ### range() and len() functions:#### &#x09;	range():&#x09;				It is used generate numbers&#x09;			It takes three values start , stop, and step.Syntex: Rules to write a program.Syntax: range(start, stop , step)start: from\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_21/07/2026\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_### Mutable / Changable  and immutable / non changeable objects:#### Mutable:&#x09;objects which can be changed after their creation.#### immutable:&#x09;objects which can't be changed after their creation.Immutable:			mutable:Intergerts,			Listfloat				Setcomplex				Dictionarytuplestring### **Input() function:**&#x09;		**This** function is used to pass the values into my program after the execution of the program.### **Operators:**&#x09;operator is a symbol that performs some action between one or more then one objects.#### **Types of operators:**##### **Arithmetic:**&#x09;These operator are used to perform mathematical operations in our program.&#x09;operators:+,-,\*,/,//,%,\*\*.##### **Assignment:**&#x09;Comparison/relationalLogicalIdentityMembershipBitwiswarlus**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_22/07/26\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**##### **Assignment Operator:**&#x09;&#x09;theses are used to assign a value to a variable##### **Comparison Operator:**&#x09;	Two  compare values of two objects and they&#x09;**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_23/07/26\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**### **Logical operators:**&#x09;	It is used to evolute one or more than one conditions at once.Operators: and, or, not.## **AND:**&#x09;**It returns true only when all the conditions are true .**&#x09;#### AND truth table:cond1		cond2		resulttrue		true		truetrue		false		falsefalse		true		falsefalse		false		false## OR:&#x09;### OR truth table:cond1		cond2		resulttrue		true		truetrue		false		truefalse		true		truefalse		false		false#### NOT truth table:cond1		resultfalse		truetrue		false### Identity operator:&#x09;	These are operators used to check whether two variables pointing to the same object or notOperators: IS , IS NOT##### Code Optimization :&#x09;			The Program creates only on object for all variables if the object size is withinlimit if the size of the object goes beyond that limit python creates different objects for different variables### Membership operator:&#x09;	These are used to check whether an object is a members of sequence or not.Operations: in , in not.